CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Write Freely

Welcome! We're glad you're interested in contributing to the Write Freely project.

To start, we'd suggest checking out [our Phabricator board](https://phabricator.write.as/tag/write_freely/) to see where the project is at and where it's going. You can also [join the Write Freely forums](https://discuss.write.as/c/writefreely) to start talking about what you'd like to do or see.

## Contributing code

We gladly welcome development help, regardless of coding experience. We can also use help [translating the app](https://poeditor.com/join/project/TIZ6HFRFdE) and documenting it!

**Before writing or submitting any code**, please sign our [contributor's agreement](https://phabricator.write.as/L1) so we can accept your contributions. It is substantially similar to the _Apache Individual Contributor License Agreement_. If you'd like to know about the rationale behind this requirement, you can [read more about that here](https://phabricator.write.as/w/writefreely/cla/).

Once you've done that, please feel free to [submit a pull request](https://github.com/writeas/writefreely/pulls) for any small improvements. For larger projects, please [join our development discussions](https://discuss.write.as/c/writefreely) or [get in touch](https://write.as/contact) so we can talk about what you'd like to work on.

Commit message:

Explain where to post questions, feedback, bugs

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to WriteFreely

Welcome! We're glad you're interested in contributing to the WriteFreely project.

To start, we'd suggest checking out [our Phabricator board](https://phabricator.write.as/tag/write_freely/) to see where the project is at and where it's going. You can also [join the WriteFreely forums](https://discuss.write.as/c/writefreely) to start talking about what you'd like to do or see.

## Asking Questions

The best place to get answers to your questions is on [our forums](https://discuss.write.as/c/writefreely). You can quickly log in using your GitHub account and ask the community about anything. We're also there to answer your questions and discuss potential changes or features.

## Submitting Bugs

Please use the [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/writeas/writefreely/issues/new) to report any bugs you encounter. We're very responsive there and try to keep open issues to a minimum, so you can help by:

* **Only reporting bugs in the issue tracker**
* Providing as much information as possible to replicate the issue, including server logs around the incident
* Including the `[app]` section of your configuration, if related
* Breaking issues into smaller pieces if they're larger or have many parts

## Contributing code

We gladly welcome development help, regardless of coding experience. We can also use help [translating the app](https://poeditor.com/join/project/TIZ6HFRFdE) and documenting it!

**Before writing or submitting any code**, please sign our [contributor's agreement](https://phabricator.write.as/L1) so we can accept your contributions. It is substantially similar to the _Apache Individual Contributor License Agreement_. If you'd like to know about the rationale behind this requirement, you can [read more about that here](https://phabricator.write.as/w/writefreely/cla/).

Once you've done that, please feel free to [submit a pull request](https://github.com/writeas/writefreely/pulls) for any small improvements. For larger projects, please [join our development discussions](https://discuss.write.as/c/writefreely) or [get in touch](https://write.as/contact) so we can talk about what you'd like to work on.
